.Dd Jul 18, 2007
.Os Ubuntu
.ds volume-operating-system Ubuntu
.Dt GERMINATE\-PKG\-DIFF 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm germinate\-pkg\-diff
.Nd compare seeds against currently installed packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl l Ar file
.Op Fl m Brq Li i Ns | Ns Li r Ns | Ns Li d
.Op Fl a Ar arch
.Op Ar seeds
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
compares the expansion of a list of seed packages against the set of
packages installed on the current system.
When constructing seeds for a software distribution, it can be used to
iteratively find packages installed on developers' systems that should be
included in the seeds.
.Pp
A list of seeds against which to compare may be supplied as non-option
arguments.
Seeds from which they inherit will be added automatically.
The default is
.Sq desktop .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Xo Fl l ,
.Fl Fl list Ar file
.Xc
Read the list of currently installed packages from
.Ar file .
The default is to read the output of
.Ic dpkg Fl Fl get\-selections ,
and any supplied file should be in the same format.
.It Xo Fl m ,
.Fl Fl mode Brq Li i Ns | Ns Li r Ns | Ns Li d
.Xc
Set the output mode as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Li i
Show the
.Ic dpkg
selections needed to install just these seeds.
List unseeded but installed files as
.Dq deinstall ,
and seeded but uninstalled files as
.Dq install .
.It Li r
List unseeded but installed files as
.Dq install ,
and seeded but uninstalled files as
.Dq deinstall .
.It Li d
Show the differences between the packages specified by the seeds and the
list of installed packages, in a somewhat
.Ic diff Ns -like
format.
.El
.It Xo Fl S ,
.Fl Fl seed\-source Ar source Ns \&,...
.Xc
Fetch seeds from the specified sources.
The default is
.Pa http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/ .
.It Xo Fl s ,
.Fl Fl seed\-dist Ar dist
.Xc
Fetch seeds for distribution
.Ar dist .
The default is
.Li ubuntu.hardy .
.It Xo Fl d ,
.Fl Fl dist Ar dist Ns \&,...
.Xc
Operate on the specified distributions.
The default is
.Li hardy .
Listing multiple distributions may be useful, for example, when examining
both a released distribution and its security updates.
.It Xo Fl a ,
.Fl Fl arch Ar arch
.Xc
Operate on architecture
.Ar arch .
The default is
.Li i386 .
.El
.Sh BUGS
.Fl Fl mode Li r
is useless as
.Ic dpkg Fl Fl set\-selections
input.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lamont Jones Aq lamont@ubuntu.com
.An Colin Watson Aq cjwatson@canonical.com
.Pp
.An -nosplit
.Nm
is copyright \(co 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
.An Canonical Ltd .
See the GNU General Public License version 2 or later for copying
conditions.
A copy of the GNU General Public License is available in
.Pa /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL .
