.Dd May 27, 2005
.Os Ubuntu
.ds volume-operating-system Ubuntu
.Dt GERMINATE 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm germinate
.Nd expand dependencies in a list of seed packages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl S Ar source
.Op Fl s Ar dist
.Op Fl m Ar mirror
.Op Fl d Ar dist Ns \&,...
.Op Fl a Ar arch
.Op Fl c Ar component Ns \&,...
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl Fl bzr
.Op Fl Fl no\-rdepends
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a program to help with the maintenance of large software distributions.
It takes a list of seed packages and a mirror of the distribution, and
produces outputs with the seed packages and their dependencies and
build-dependencies expanded out in full.
.Ss Seeds
The contents of the Ubuntu distribution, and others, are managed by means of
.Em seeds .
At their simplest, these are lists of packages which are considered
important to have in the main component of the distribution, without
explicitly listing all their dependencies and build-dependencies.
.Pp
Seed lists are typically divided up by category: a
.Li base
or
.Li minimal
seed might list the core set of packages required to make the system run at
all, while a
.Li desktop
seed might list the set of packages installed as part of a default desktop
installation.
.Nm
takes these seeds, adds their dependency trees, and produces an
.Em output
for each seed which contains a dependency-expanded list of package names.
These outputs may be handed on to archive maintenance or CD-building tools.
.Pp
Some seeds may
.Em inherit
from other seeds: they rely on those seeds to be installed.
For example, a
.Li desktop
seed will typically inherit from a
.Li minimal
seed.
.Nm
understands these inheritance relationships.
If a package in the
.Li desktop
seed depends on
.Sq foo ,
but
.Sq foo
is already part of the
.Li minimal
seed or dependency list, then
.Sq foo
will not be added to the
.Li desktop
output.
.Pp
Seeds are stored in text files downloaded from a given URL.
Lines not beginning with
.Sq "\ *\ "
(wiki-style list markup) are ignored.
Seed entries beginning with
.Sq %
expand to all binaries from the given source package.
Seed entries may be followed with
.Sq " [" Ns Ar arch1 Ar arch2 ... Ns \&]
to indicate that they should only be used on the given architectures, or with
.Sq " [!" Ns Ar arch1 No ! Ns Ar arch2 ... Ns \&]
to indicate that they should not be used on the given architectures.
.Pp
Seed entries in parentheses indicate that the seed should be treated as a
recommendation of metapackages generated from this seed, rather than as a
dependency.
.Pp
Seed entries beginning with
.Sq \&!
cause the given package to be blacklisted from the given seed and any seeds
from which it inherits; this may be followed by
.Sq %
as above to blacklist all binaries from the given source package.
Note that this may result in uninstallable packages whose dependencies have
been blacklisted, so use this feature sparingly.
.Pp
A
.Pa STRUCTURE
file alongside the seeds lists their inheritance relationships.
.Ss Build-dependencies and Sq supported
There is typically no need for a default desktop installation to contain all
the compilers and development libraries needed to build itself from source;
if nothing else, it would consume much more space.
Nevertheless, it is normally a requirement for the maintainers of a
distribution to support all the packages necessary to build that
distribution.
.Pp
.Nm
therefore does not add all the packages that result from following
build-dependencies of seed packages and of their dependencies (the
.Dq build-dependency tree )
to every output, unless they are also in the seed or in the dependency list.
Instead, it adds them to the output for the last seed in the
.Pa STRUCTURE
file, conventionally called
.Li supported .
.Pp
Like any other seed, the supported seed may contain its own list of
packages.
It is common to provide support for many software packages which are not in
the default installation, such as debugging libraries, optimised kernels,
alternative language support, and the like.
.Ss Outputs
The output files are named after the seed to which they correspond.
An additional output file is needed for supported, namely
.Sq supported+build\-depends ,
which contains the supported list and the build-depends lists of the other
seeds all joined together.
An
.Sq all
output is produced to represent the entire archive.
.Pp
Some other files are produced for occasional use by experts.
See the
.Pa README
file for full details on these.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Xo Fl S ,
.Fl Fl seed\-source Ar source Ns \&,...
.Xc
Fetch seeds from the specified sources.
The default is
.Pa http://people.ubuntu.com/~ubuntu-archive/seeds/ ,
or
.Pa http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-core-dev/ubuntu-seeds/
if the
.Fl Fl bzr
option is used.
.It Xo Fl s ,
.Fl Fl seed\-dist Ar dist
.Xc
Fetch seeds for distribution
.Ar dist .
The default is
.Li ubuntu.hardy .
.It Xo Fl m ,
.Fl Fl mirror Ar mirror
.Xc
Get package lists from
.Ar mirror .
The default is
.Pa http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ .
.It Xo Fl d ,
.Fl Fl dist Ar dist Ns \&,...
.Xc
Operate on the specified distributions.
The default is
.Li hardy .
Listing multiple distributions may be useful, for example, when examining
both a released distribution and its security updates.
.It Xo Fl a ,
.Fl Fl arch Ar arch
.Xc
Operate on architecture
.Ar arch .
The default is
.Li i386 .
.It Xo Fl c ,
.Fl Fl components Ar component Ns \&,...
.Xc
Operate on the specified components.
The default is
.Li main .
.It Xo Fl i ,
.Fl Fl ipv6
.Xc
Check IPv6 status of source packages, using the statistics available at
.Pa http://debdev.fabbione.net/stat/ .
.It Fl Fl bzr
Check out seeds from the
.Ic bzr
branch found at
.Ar seed\-source Ns / Ns Ar seed\-dist
rather than fetching them directly from a URL.
Requires
.Ic bzr
to be installed.
.It Fl Fl no\-rdepends
Disable reverse-dependency calculations.
These calculations cause a large number of small files to be written out in
the
.Pa rdepends/
directory, and may take some time.
.It Fl Fl seed\-packages Ar parent Ns / Ns Ar pkg Ns \&,...
Treat each
.Ar pkg
as a seed by itself, inheriting from
.Ar parent
(i.e. assuming that all packages in the
.Ar parent
seed are already installed while calculating the additional dependencies of
.Ar pkg ) .
This allows the use of
.Nm
to calculate the dependencies of individual extra packages.
.El
.Sh BUGS
The wiki-style markup in seeds was inherited from an early implementation,
and is a wart.
.Pp
.Nm
can sometimes be confused by complicated situations involving the order in
which it encounters dependencies on virtual packages.
Explicit entries in seeds may be required to work around this.
.Pp
Handling of installer packages (udebs) is complicated, poorly documented,
and doesn't always work quite right: in particular, packages aren't demoted
to the supported seed when they should be.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Scott James Remnant Aq scott@canonical.com
.An Colin Watson Aq cjwatson@canonical.com
.Pp
.An -nosplit
.Nm
is copyright \(co 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
.An Canonical Ltd .
See the GNU General Public License version 2 or later for copying
conditions.
A copy of the GNU General Public License is available in
.Pa /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL .
